[Home](../) > [C#](../csharp/)

# Razor Reference

ASP.NET helpers are components that can be accessed by single lines of Razor code.
You can build your own helpers using Razor syntax, or use built-in ASP.NET helpers.
Below is a short description of some useful Razor helpers:

- Web Grid
- Web Graphics
- Google Analytics
- Facebook Integration
- Twitter Integration
- Sending Email
- Validation

Main Razor Syntax Rules for C#

- Razor code blocks are enclosed in @{ ... }
- Inline expressions (variables and functions) start with @
- Code statements end with semicolon
- Variables are declared with the var keyword
- Strings are enclosed with quotation marks
- C# code is case sensitive
- C# files have the extension .cshtml

How Does Razor Work?
Razor is a simple programming syntax for embedding server code in web pages.
Razor syntax is based on the ASP.NET framework, the part of the Microsoft.NET Framework that's specifically designed for creating web applications.

The Razor syntax gives you all the power of ASP.NET, but is using a simplified syntax that's easier to learn if you're a beginner, and makes you more productive if you're an expert.

Razor web pages can be described as HTML pages with two kinds of content: HTML content and Razor code.

When the server reads the page, it runs the Razor code first, before it sends the HTML page to the browser. The code that is executed on the server can perform tasks that cannot be done in the browser, for example accessing a server database. Server code can create dynamic HTML content on the fly, before it is sent to the browser. Seen from the browser, the HTML generated by server code is no different than static HTML content.

ASP.NET web pages with Razor syntax have the special file extension cshtml (Razor using C#)
